---
title:  "Entitled powerful Zionist minority - Osgood Law webinar"
date:   2021-11-01 9:03:58 -0400
categories: post
author: "Marcin Peski"
layout: posts
classes: wide
tags: Zoric
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
The comments made during the Osgood Law webinar made by T. Zoric are ciriticized by numerous organiztions. T. Zoric offered an apology.
<!--more-->

During June 14, 2021 panel "What the hell happened at the University of Toronto law school?", T. Zoric, the UTFA President, made the following comments:

> Very, very quickly many thanks to the organizers of this wonderful event on the censure [by the Canadian Association of University of Teachers (CAUT) of the University of Toronto] of u of t [the University of Toronto] and all the activists who’ve made it possible for those of us doing institutional work to have some room to maneuver.

> I wanted to offer that, as an early leader who defended the folks at the law school and the principles of academic freedom and collegial governance, there was nothing short of unending harassment and psychological warfare where those of us were supportive of the principles at stake at the heart of the censure. [We] experienced horrible backlash by an entitled powerful Zionist minority that felt that any criticisms of Cromwell [the author of a review report] or anyone else could be met with accusations of antisemitism. And it took an enormous amount of work to get us to a point where we could have even have a conversation about what went on why it went on and so on.

> Many graduate students with whom I’ve worked ‑ I teach in the Department of Social Justice Education ‑ have complained that any time they want to talk about a boycott [and] divestment [against Israel in support of] Palestine or anything like that, they feel targeted in similar ways. If you don’t think faculty themselves, including those of us in senior positions, can be intimidated by the powerful response you don’t understand what’s at stake and we continue to be in that position.”

Those comments were almost immediately criticized as evoking antisemitic tropes by some UofT faculty as well as the following Jewish organizations:

* [Canadian Antisemitism Education Foundation](https://www.caef.ca/post/caef-letter-to-the-president-gertler),

* [B'nai Brith](https://www.bnaibrith.ca/letter-to-u-of-t-president-meric-gertler/).

After few months, that included meetings with some of the organizatons and the faculty, on October 28, 2021 the President issued the following [apology](https://www.utfa.org/content/statement-apology):

> I apologize for using a phrase that evoked a negative trope at the "What the hell happened at the University of Toronto Law School?" event. I now better recognize how such tropes can tap into and reinforce harmful stereotypes about the Jewish community. Although it was not my intention, I acknowledge that the words I used caused pain and distress to many of my colleagues, who experienced them as insults. For that as well I am truly sorry.

> As someone who has devoted decades of her life to the work of challenging discrimination in its many forms, I am humbled. I am reminded of my responsibility to foster more listening, more respectful dialogue, and a greater willingness to learn from each other so that we may pursue our shared goals as an Association.