---
title:  "UTFA budgets and transparency"
date:   2022-06-17 10:03:58 -0400
categories: post
author: "Marcin Peski"
layout: posts
classes: wide
tags: budget
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
Since summer 2020, the UTFA Treasurer stopped revealing detailed budget information, including information about officer Stipends. This a direct violation of the UTFA Constitution. 
<!--more-->

The financial accountability at the UTFA is regulated by three rules:

- every June, the Treasurer presents to the Council a draft budget (Bylaw 8.3)

- every October, the Treasurer presents an actual budget for the previous year (Constitution 12.3, Bylaw 8.3),

- every April, during the AGM, the Treasurer presents audited financial statement. 

The amount of information to be revealed is described in Article 12.3 of the Constitution:

> 12.3 Once each academic year, the Treasurer shall present to Council, for approval, a **detailed budget** for the Association setting out actual income and expenses, **including Officer stipends** (if any), for the current fiscal year as well as predicted income and proposed expenses for the next fiscal year. From time to time, as is necessary, the Treasurer shall present to Council an interim or revised budget. (emphasis mine).

Before summer 2020, the past Treasurers always released draft (June) and actual budgets (October) in the [same detailed formats]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _files/budgets/budgets%before%2020.pdf %}). The budgets had around **120-150 positions**, and, in particular, included a detailed description of the stpiends collected by the UTFA Officers, amount of money spent on salaries, individual, and association grievances, outflows to various organizations, etc. 

This changed in summer 2020. Since then, the UTFA Treasurer releases information similar to the one contained in the audited statements. [The new format]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _files/budgets/budgets%2020-2021.pdf %}) contains only **10-13 general categories**. The new format contains a general category Officer Stipends, but does not separate 

(Last year, when I asked about the compensation about the UTFA Officers, it took 2 months, 3 reminders, and a public email to the Council in order to receive an answer that is  )

The UTFA business staff contains and compiles information in exactly the same way as previously. The respnsibility for the decision not to release the information in the old format lies solely on the UTFA Treasurer Maureen Stapleton. When I asked the Treasurer why she refuses to release the detailed budget, her reply was:

> Consider that most Council members do not welcome a 150+ line itemized list of accounts. 